Architect
The Architect holds to a purpose greater than herself
and is fulfilled when creating something of lasting value
for others. She works to provide necessities to those
around her.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you establish
something of importance or lasting value.

Autocrat
The Autocrat pursues power and control for its own
sake.
Regain a point of Willpower when you exercise control
over a group or organization.
Beast
The Beast only respects actual deeds and
believes civilization is a trap set for the weak.
What counts is personal achievement.
Regain a point of Willpower when
you beat civilized competition through
personal action.
Bon Vivant
The Bon Vivant lives life to
the fullest, making use of every
second.
Regain a point of Willpower
when you truly enjoy yourself.
At the Storyteller’s discretion, a
particularly fabulous revel may yield
multiple Willpower points.
Bravo
The Bravo believes that
might makes right. Power
matters, and while physical
power is the best kind, any will do.
Regain a point of Willpower
any time you achieve your agenda
through physical or social brutishness
or intimidation.
Caregiver
The Caregiver takes comfort in
consoling others, and people often
come to her with their problems.
Regain a point of Willpower
whenever you successfully protect
or nurture someone.

Celebrant
The Celebrant takes joy
in her cause and indulges in
her chosen passion as deeply
as possible. She pursues it out
of enthusiasm, not duty.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you pursue your
cause or convert another character to the same passion.
Chameleon
The Chameleon is independent and careful. He
studies behavior and mannerisms to pass himself off as
someone else later.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you
fool someone into thinking you’re someone else
for your own benefit.
Child
The Child is immature in personality
and temperament. She can care for herself
if need be, but would rather have someone
cater to her desires.
Regain a point of Willpower when-
ever you convince someone to help
you with no gain to himself.
Competitor
The Competitor approaches
every task and social interaction as
a new challenge to meet and contest
to win.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever
you succeed in a dramatic situation. Espe-
cially difficult victories may allow you to
regain multiple Willpower points at the
Storyteller’s discretion.
Conformist
The Conformist is a follower,
throwing in with the rest of the group
and lending aid to the cause.
Regain a point of Willpower when-
ever the group or your supported leader
achieves a goal due to your support.
Conniver
The Conniver finds the fast
track to success and wealth
through trickery and manipu-
lation.
Regain a point of Willpower
whenever you trick someone into
doing something or convince
them to help you against their
best interests.
Creep Show
The Creep Show revels in shocking and disgusting those
around her. It’s a facade to intimidate and control others,
but others buy into it and think she’s the Devil incarnate.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever someone recoils
from you in horror or reacts in fear.
Curmudgeon
The Curmudgeon is bitter and cynical, finding flaws in
everything and seeing little humor in life or unlife. Fatal-
istic and pessimistic, he has very little esteem for others.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever someone takes
a specific negative action, just like you said they would.
You must predict this failure aloud.
Dabbler
The Dabber is interested in everything but focuses
on nothing. He flits from idea to idea without actually
finishing anything.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you find a new
enthusiasm and drop your old one completely.
Defender
The Defender struggles to defend her chosen cause in
the face of its enemies. It may be some fragile innovation
or hope of future progress.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you successfully
defend your cause.
Deviant
The Deviant is a freak, ostracized from society by
non-mainstream tastes or beliefs and feel the world stands
against them.
Regain a point of Willpower any time you are able to
flout social mores without retribution.
Enigma
The Enigma’s actions are bizarre, puzzling, and in-
explicable. Her erratic actions suggest she’s eccentric, if
not completely crazy.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever someone is
perplexed by actions you take that later turn out to be a
fruitful endeavor.
Eye of the Storm
The Eye of the Storm retains a calm appearance but
chaos seems to follow him.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever a ruckus, riot,
or less violent but chaotic phenomenon occurs around you.
Fanatic
The Fanatic has a purpose that consumes her exis-
tence. She may even feel guilty undertaking an object
that deviates from the higher goal.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you accomplish
something directly relating to your cause.
Gallant
The Gallant is a flamboyant soul, always seeking atten-
tion in the company of others, if only to earn their adoration.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you successfully
impress another person.
Guru
The Guru’s enlightenment draws others to her. Her
presence motivates others to engage in spiritual or ideo-
logical pursuits.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever your guidance
moves a person to an enlightened action he normally
would not have taken.
Idealist
The Idealist believes in some higher goal or morality
and tries to reconcile his beliefs with the demands of
vampiric existence, often acting contrary to his self-in-
terest in doing so.
Regain a point of Willpower any time an action fur-
thers your goals and brings your ideal closer to fruition.
Jester
The Jester sees the world as a veil of folly and deceit,
and enlightens others through the subtle ways of humor.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you raise the
spirits of those in great misery, or when you undermine
a bully or tyrant by making him the object of ridicule.
Judge
The Judge seeks to improve the system and sees justice
as the most efficient model for resolving issues.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you correctly
solve a problem by considering the evidence presented,
or when one of your arguments unites dissenting parties.
Loner
The Loner prefers her own company to that of others,
and the feeling is often reciprocated.
Regain a point of Willpower when you accomplish
something by yourself that still benefits the coterie as a
whole in some way.
Martyr
The Martyr suffers for his cause, enduring her trials
out of the belief that her discomfort will ultimately im-
prove the world.
Regain a point of Willpower when you suffer some
damage or loss of a definable resource for your ideals or
another’s immediate gain.
Masochist
The Masochist exists to test her limits and gains satis-
faction in humiliation, suffering, denial, and physical pain.
Regain a point of Willpower when your own suffer-
ing leads to some tangible gain for you, or whenever you
experience pain in a unique way.
Mercenary
The Mercenary believes anything can be a commodity.
Appearance and influence are everything when it comes
to a sale, and no advantage is wasted.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you make a
successful sale of any commodity or service.
Monster
The Monster knows she is a creature of darkness and
acts like it. Evil and suffering are tools. She doesn’t commit
evil for evil’s sake but rather as a means to understand
what she’s become.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you commit
a specific atrocity. Storytellers should be careful when
rewarding this Archetype. A player who chooses violence
as an atrocity shouldn’t regain Willpower every combat,
but perhaps only when she needs to roll a degeneration
check. Rewards should come as a result of the character
challenging his own descent into the Beast.
Pedagogue
The Pedagogue knows it all and make sure his message
is heard – at length, if necessary.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you see or
learn of someone who has benefited from the wisdom
you share with them.
Penitent
The Penitent atones for the grave sin she commits
simply by being who she is and feels compelled to “make
up” for inflicting herself on the world.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you feel that
you have achieved absolution for a given sin.
Perfectionist
The Perfectionist demands flawless execution from
herself as well as others.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you motivate
another character to succeed as a result of your own
shining example.
Philosopher
The Philosopher critically examines every situation
looking for logical outcomes and patterns.
Regain a point of Willpower any time a logical, system-
atic approach to a problem helps you solve it, or information
gathered logically is of use in another similar situation.
Rebel
The Rebel is a malcontent, never satisfied with the
status quo or the system as it is. He does everything in
his power to undermine authority.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever your actions
adversely affect your chosen opposition.
Rogue
The Rogue only cares about one thing: herself. She
is not necessarily a thug or bully; she simply has her own
best interests in mind at all times.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever your self-cen-
tered disposition leads you to profit.
Sadist
The Sadist exists to inflict pain and suffering on oth-
ers. Killing is too easy. She seeks the slowest, most painful
means to push others to the ultimate limits.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you inflict pain
upon someone for no reason other than your own pleasure.
Soldier
The Soldier is not a blindly loyal follower. While she
exists for orders, she does not adhere to them unques-
tioningly. More independent than a Conformist but too
tied to the idea of command to be a Loner, the Soldier
applies her own techniques to others’ goals and ambition
lies within the established hierarchy and structure.
Regain a point of Willpower when you achieve your
orders’ objectives.
Survivor
The Survivor always manages to pull through, no
matter the odds or opposition. The Survivor’s utter re-
fusal to accept defeat often makes the difference between
success and failure.
Regain a point of Willpower whenever you survive a
threatening situation through sheer tenacity, or when your
counsel causes someone else to persist in spite of opposition.
Thrill-Seeker
The Thrill-Seeker lives for the rush of danger and
actively pursues hazardous and possibly deadly situations.
He is not actively suicidal or self-destructive; he simply
seeks the stimulation of risk.
Regain a point of Willpower any time you succeed
at a dangerous task you have deliberately undertaken.
Traditionalist
The Traditionalist prefers to accomplish her goals
with time-tested methods. The status quo is acceptable,
even preferable to change.
Regain a point of Willpower any time the proven way
turns out to be the best. Also, regain a point of Willpower
any time you adhere to one of your previously espoused
positions and it proves a wise course of action
Tyrant
The Tyrant seeks to be in charge or guide a group,
bringing order out of strife.
Regain a point of Willpower when you influence or
aid a group in the completion of a difficult task.
Visionary
The Visionary tests accepted societal limits and
seeks what few others have the courage to imagine. She
encourages society to offer what it is capable of offering
instead of what it actually does offer. She is responsible
for bringing about progress and change.
Regain a point of Willpower each time you are able to
convince others to have faith in your vision of the future