Physical Merits
Ambidextrous (1 point): Whether by training or a
gift of birth, you are equally adept with both hands. You
must still split actions as normal, but you do not incur
any additional penalties for taking actions with your
non-dominant hand.
Deceptive Eating (1 point): By some fortune, you
are able to consume and enjoy mortal cuisine, thereby
adding another layer to your guise of mortality. When
applicable, the Storyteller may rule a lower difficulty or
reduced penalties to rolls to convince others that you are
human. You cannot digest or derive nourishment from
normal food, however, and eventually must find a time
and a place to heave it back up.
Blush of Health (2 points): The Embrace that
claimed you did not entirely leach away the tells of your
former life. Your skin is cool to the touch rather than
cold, retaining a healthy fullness as if blood skill coursed
through your veins. You easily pass as a mortal against all
but the most thorough examination and the Storyteller
may choose to lower the difficulty or reduce penalties to
rolls to convince others of your mortality. Cappadocians
and Nosferatu may not take this Merit.
Without a Trace (2 points): When you stray from
the paths of civilization and wander into the wilderness,
leaves, grass, and moss grow back where you pass and
the earth itself moves to fill your footprints. You leave
no noticeable traces of your passing, not even a scent.
Normal attempts to track you (such as with Survival or
ordinary dogs) automatically fail. The difficulty of attempts
to track you by supernatural means, such as with Auspex,
increases by two.
Efficient Digestion (3 points): Your internal vam-
piric systems work faster and more effectively than most,
granting you more a greater yield from feeding. Gain an
additional blood point for every two you consume.
Sturdy (4 points): Training, hardships, or natural
ability have inured your body to pain and damage. While
you are not necessarily a hulking brute, anyone who has
seen you in action knows that you can take more dam-
age than the average individual. You gain an additional
Bruised health level and the Storyteller may award you
with any appropriate bonuses when your innate toughness
comes into play.
Physical Flaws
Odd Gait (1 point): Moving swiftly does not come
easily for you; perhaps walking is painful or perhaps you are
simply never in a hurry. Whatever the reason, you move at
half your normal movement speed. Storyteller characters
may also come to recognize you by your uncommon walk.
Ragged Bite (2 points): Unlike your Cainite peers,
you lack the ability to neatly seal up the wound caused
by feeding. Instead, you leave torn, bleeding marks which
have a chance of becoming infected. Your target must
make a Stamina roll (difficulty the number of damage
caused + 5) to resist infection. The impact of such a no-
table wound in conjunction with a diseased target is left
to the discretion of the Storyteller. At the very least, this
poses complications in hiding your identity as anything
other than a monster.
Unclean (2 or 3 points): Whether a lingering trait
from your mortal life or an unfortunate side effect of
your Embrace, your skin is marred in such a way that
most casual observers assume you are a leper (or at least
carrying some kind of plague). You may be barred entry
to major cities, thrown out of most establishments, or
subject to misguided attempts at healing or mercy. At 3
points, you carry leprosy (or some other contagious and
visible disease). Nosferatu who take this Flaw receive
only 1 point for it and must take its full effects (3 points).
Addiction (3 points): One of your vices from life has
carried over into your unlife. Now, whenever you feed, you
must also satiate your addiction. This could be anything from
preying on drunkards, those who have become dependent
on pain-killing opiates, or even the deeply spiritual who use
hallucinogens to commune with the divine. The addiction not
need be limited to substance abuse, extending to thrill-seeking
or sexual encounters. Blood not tainted with your vice only
offers half the normal sustenance.
Monstrous (3 points): When you were Embraced,
the Beast within tore its way out, permanently manifesting
itself in your physical features. You are a terrible, twisted
creature, the stuff of nightmares in unliving flesh. Ordinary
mortals flee in terror at your approach and even Cainites
recoil in disgust. Your Appearance is permanently 0 and
cannot be raised. If your character is of Clan Nosferatu,
you may not take this Flaw.
Permanent Wound (3 points): By some misfortune,
a wound sustained in your mortal life refuses to heal,
forever open and weeping. When you wake at night, you
always begin at the Wounded health level. No source of
healing can cure this damage permanently, but you may
spend blood points each night to heal it.
Slow Healing (3 points): While other Cainites re-
cover swiftly from their injuries, you are not so fortunate.
Your unliving flesh is slow to mend and reluctant to heal,
costing two blood points to heal a normal level of damage
and five days (in addition to the normal expenditures) to
heal a level of aggravated damage.
Child (4 points): Most vampires begin their unlife
in adulthood, but your sire, whether by necessity, cruelty,
or peculiarity, Embraced you when you were a child. No
matter how many years have passed, your body remains
prepubescent. Your Strength and Stamina may not be
higher than 2 and the difficulty of rolls to lead or command
mortal adults increases by two.
Impaired Sense (4 points): Whether by birth or an
unfortunate circumstance later in life, one of your senses has
been diminished. Perhaps you are hard of hearing or blind,
or perhaps one of your other senses has lost its functionality.
Rolls involving your impaired sense are made at a difficulty
increased by 3. This may also increase the difficulty of other
rolls or impose other appropriate penalties. At Storyteller
discretion, this Flaw may be taken more than once, but
additional senses are each 1-point Flaws.
Mute (4 points): You cannot (or choose not to)
speak. Typically, you communicate through body language
and gestures, which imposes a +3 difficulty for any rolls
that require you to communicate with unfamiliar people.
Taking the Literacy Merit or dedicating a Multi-Lingual
language to sign language can lessen this issue.
Flesh of the Corpse (5 points): Although you recover
from your wounds (mechanically healing any health levels
lost), your flesh and bone retain the memory of the injury.
Skin stays torn, bruises remain dark, and broken bones
still bend at odd angles. You are incapable of passing as
anything but inhuman, and the Storyteller may assign
increased difficulty to Social rolls as appropriate. Some
Cainites with this Flaw continue to age and decay, even-
tually becoming nothing more than skeletons with rough,
organ-like chunks hanging off their bones.
Mental Merits
Celestial Attunement (1 point): You innately
know what time of day it is and are able to accurately
guess the hour of sunrise and sunset within a few min-
utes. With a moment’s concentration, you may also
estimate the position of the stars, even without the
aid of a star chart.
Common Sense (1 point): You’ve got a good head
on your shoulders and a natural aversion to foolish risk. In
tense situations, you may ask the Storyteller for hints about
the most reasonable course of action. The Storyteller may
also grant you a warning against poorly considered actions.
Literacy (1 point): You are a learned scholar, able
to both read and write. The Merit assumes that you can
read and write with fluency in your native tongue, as
well as Latin and any languages you may have gained
through the Multi-Lingual Merit. In some chronicles,
literacy can be assumed. In these cases, Illiteracy becomes
a 1-point Flaw.
Eidetic Memory (2 points): With but a moment’s
reflection, you can recall anything you’ve observed or
experienced in clear detail. In a stressful or dangerous
situation, this recollection may require a Perception +
Alertness roll.
Light Sleeper (2 points): When you rest, you retain
a level of alertness above and beyond the norm. You wake
at any unwanted disturbance in your environment, thereby
making it very hard to surprise you while you sleep. You
automatically succeed at any rolls to detect mundane
attempts at surprise attacks while you sleep.
Multi-Lingual (2 points): Through patience, study,
and/or immersion, you are able to speak another lan-
guage or languages with native fluency. This represents
a full command over the language. For each dot of In-
telligence your character possesses, you may know one
other language. You may also use this Merit to reflect
secret codes, cants, jargon, or sign language as well.
Additional languages increase the cost of this Merit by
one point per language.
Mental Flaws
Deep Sleeper (1 point): Slumber takes you wholly,
plunging you completely into the depthless realm of
dreams. Increase the difficulty of rolls to wake during
the day by two.
Nightmares (1 point): When you sleep, nightmares
invade your dreams. Terrible images assault your mind,
MERITS AND FLAWS
422
leaving you anxious and breathless upon waking. When
you wake, make a Willpower roll. If you fail, the horror
of your dreams haunts you, decreasing your dice pools for
all actions by one until you next sleep.
Prey Exclusion (1 point): For whatever reason you
choose, you refuse to feed upon a certain type of person.
If, by some unfortunate circumstance, you prey upon
such a person, you frenzy immediately and must make a
Degeneration check. Ventrue may only take this Flaw for
a subset of their particular feeding stock. For example, a
Ventrue might feed from “virgin men,” but will not feed
from Jewish virgin men.
Amnesia (2 points): Something has erased a portion
of your memory. You remember little to nothing about
your past. How far back this memory loss goes should be
agreed upon between you and the Storyteller. You should
also work together to determine what your character
may have forgotten (unless you prefer to be surprised,
of course). Storytellers should feel free to use this empty
space in the character’s memory to provide interesting
complications for the campaign.
Vengeful (2 points): Revenge drives you. Its hot,
constant presence motivates your every move. Work out
with the Storyteller what wrongdoing has pushed you into
such a state. Whenever you encounter the source of your
ire, you are compelled to pursue it, but you may spend a
Willpower point to ignore this urge.
Flesh Eater (2 points): You cling to the misguided
belief that you must also consume the blood-rich flesh of
your victim (such as the heart or liver). This has obvious
impact on the size of your herd as well as the mortal pop-
ulation eventually linking mysterious, gruesome deaths to
you. To keep down blood consumed without a murderous
amount of flesh, you must succeed in a Willpower roll
(difficulty 8) or vomit up the blood.
Ethical Prohibition (2 or 4 points): The necessity
of feeding is at odds with your moral compass. You cannot
reconcile what you have become with what you believe
in. At 2 points, you refuse to feed on humans, instead
preying upon the blood of animals. At 4 points, you can-
not come to terms with yourself at all and refuse to feed
except when utterly necessary.

Social Merits
The Company of Saints and Heroes (1 point): Life
(and possibly unlife) experiences have brought you close
to august religious figures, political entities, and legendary
heroes. They do truly know you and think well of you, but
you are not necessarily close. Use the Allies background
to represent a tighter relationship. This Merit allows you
to name-drop your famous connection and reduce the
difficulty to applicable Social rolls by one.
Prestigious Sire (1 point): The vampire who
Embraced you is no ordinary Cainite. Your sire holds
incredible clout among your clan (and possibly others),
and this social fortune has been bestowed upon you as
well. Others generally treat you with more respect when
they learn who sired you. When acting in your sire’s name
or on your sire’s behalf, decrease the difficulty of Social
rolls with other Cainites by one. Note, however, that
others may also expect more from you, simply for being
the childe of greatness.
Debt of Gratitude (1 or 3 points): Though he may
grudgingly admit it, an elder is in your debt. At 1 point, the
elder owes you a favor. Work together with the Storyteller
to determine what type of favor is owed and what you
did to earn such a thing. At 3 points, the indebted elder
owes you his unlife. Such an incident is extraordinarily
unusual, so the elder likely despises being beholden to
you. Work with the Storyteller to detail how (and why)
this happened.
Lingua Franca (1 point): You are able to speak a mixed
language made of common tongues that most people you
encounter will understand. You may not be able to hold
philosophical discussions, but you can navigate your way
through conversations in most places and will be able to
communicate sufficiently in dire situations.
Patron (1 to 5 points): You are fortunate enough to
have a personage of some wealth and power who is willing
to sponsor your endeavors. Presumably, your Patron is
fond of you and is willing to offer you material goods to
further whatever agreed upon goal you may have, so long
as you do not abuse their favor. The scale of this Merit
pertains both to the power of your Patron and how close
they are to you. A 1-point Patron could be a distant but
powerful vampire or an enthusiastic, wealthy mortal
who has infrequent funds. A 3-point Patron might be a
mortal prince or queen, or a vampire of some standing
more willing to regularly fund or champion you, while a
5-point Patron is almost certainly supernatural and has
vast resources at their disposal. This is not something for
nothing, however, and every so often (with increasing
frequency directly proportional to the points invested in
this Merit) your Patron will ask something of you. It is
generally unwise to say no.
Social Flaws
Dark Secret (1 point): Something from your past
haunts you. If found out, it could destroy your reputation
with your clan and coterie. When the truth rears its ugly
head, you must quash it or suffer the consequences of your
secret getting out. You live every day knowing that at some
point, word will get out and you will be unable to stop it.
Infamous Sire (1 point): Some Cainites are fortu-
nate enough to be Embraced by great members of their
clan, sharing in their prestige and fortune. You are not
one of those vampires. Your sire is a person of ill repute:
disrespectful, irresponsible, rebellious, and/or callow. You
are, therefore, guilty by association. He or she may also
try to foist his or her failings onto you when convenient.
Mistaken Identity (1 point): Someone among your
clan or mortal community looks just like you. This same
person is also a criminal, oath breaker, known cheat, or
other ne’er-do-well. He or she is just elusive enough to
often leave you with the blame for his or her wrongdoings.
Your doppelganger is normally little more than a minor
inconvenience, frequently leaving you to explain to au-
thorities where you have been and who you really are.
Outsider (1 point): This is not your native land; this
is not your mother tongue. You are not from around here.
Everything is strange and different, from the customs to
the food. You struggle with the area’s native language
(though you can get by with a purchase of the Lingua
Franca Merit) and the difficulty to applicable Social rolls
increases by one.
Sire’s Resentment (1 point): Whether by your own
failings or your sire’s fickle cruelty, he or she despises you.
You can expect no favors from your sire, and he or she
may be maneuvering to have you eliminated, politically
or literally. The extent to which your sire hates you is
between you and the Storyteller, but bear in mind that
this is a 1-point Flaw, which does not have much relative
weight. The Enemy Flaw represents more actively vitriolic
relationships.
Smell of the Grave (1 point): The cloying scent
of fresh, wet earth and decay clings to you. Your skin
smells of chrism (or any other oil used in a burial rite)
and your breath of funerary incense. While this bothers
your Cainite peers little, it unsettles mortals, thereby
increasing the difficulty to Social rolls with mortals
by one. This stacks with the Cappadocian weakness,
making members of that clan even less adept at Social
rolls. The upside is that, at Storyteller discretion, this
Flaw may decrease the difficulty of Social rolls where
being unsettling might work in one’s favor (such as
Intimidation attempts) by one.
Vulgar (1 point): You are famously uncouth, abrasive,
and unpleasant. Tact is a foreign concept to you, and no
matter of gentle prodding or harsher discussions can seem
to teach you how to navigate a social situation. Mechani-
cally, increase the difficulty to rolls involving social grace,
manners, or delicate social proceedings by one. You may
also roleplay yourself into a bind by accidentally offending
the wrong people.
Enemy (1 to 5 points): In your travels, you have earned
the enmity of a person or organization. The severity and
scope of this hatred is reflected by the rating of the Flaw. At
1 point, your enemy is an aggrieved peer or the irritation of
an organization. You may be undercut, inconvenienced, or
framed for petty crimes, but nothing so severe as attempts
on your unlife. At 3 points, your enemy is your superior, or
the anger of an important group. They make regular efforts
to thwart your plans, threaten your allies, and undermine
your standing with your clan and Road. At this level, your
enemy may consider granting you the Final Death. Work
this out with your Storyteller. At 5 points, your enemy is an
elder or an entire organization, such as the ruling family of
your nation or the Catholic Church. Your death is not out of
the question. None of your associates are safe. Everywhere
you go, you can expect your enemy to be waiting. What
have you done to make someone so powerful so angry?
Rivalry (1 to 5 points): Someone hates you so much
that they cannot bear to leave you alone. The scale of this
Flaw is similar to that of the Enemy Flaw (see above), but
your Rival is not interested in seeing you dead. Rather,
a Rival desires only to make your unlife as troublesome
and hellish as possible. At lower point value, the Rival
may also be a friend who arrives at precisely the worst
moment to steal your thunder or make you embarrassed.
At higher levels, your Rival loses sleep planning how to
make your life miserable.
Territorial (2 points): You have staked out a claim
to a certain area of land and a certain group of mortals
and defend it to the point of irrationality. If you catch
another vampire hunting on your turf, check for frenzy
immediately. Even if you do not frenzy, the thought alone
is enough to make you violent. Note that without the
necessary backgrounds, your “territory” means nothing
to anyone other than you.
Apostate (2 points): There is no sin in changing
Roads. However, the manner in which you changed Roads
was spectacular and offensive. You decried your former
Road in public and spoke out against the faults within their
tenets. Predictably, this has earned you the ire of those on
your former Road, but it has also made the members of
your new Road suspicious. You must work twice as hard
to earn the respect of your peers. Be wary, also, for those
who might seek revenge.
Hunted (4 points): A witch hunter has targeted
you. She may be overestimating you, but she is prepared
to eliminate you completely. You find your safe havens
uncovered, your social networks compromised, and your
allies endangered. Whether or not you affronted this witch
hunter personally is between you and the Storyteller. The
Storyteller should bear in mind that this is a 4-point Flaw
and not hold back.
Marked for Death (4 points): The Court of Blood has
found fault with you and placed a price upon your head.
You are earmarked for death, and one by one your peers
will come to bring it to you. While you may be more than
capable of taking your equals in a fight, you know not when
or where they will strike. The festering paranoia claws at the
edges of your thoughts; in addition to attackers of varying
capabilities appearing at random, at Storyteller’s discretion
you may also lose one die to Mental rolls due to distraction.
Oathbreaker (4 points): Once you swore fealty to
a lord, promised your loyalty to an organization, or made
a binding business contract with a powerful person (or
anything similar). You have since broken that promise.
Your motives may have been pure, but you are now branded
as an oath-breaker. It is near-impossible to earn the trust
of others, which, at Storyteller discretion, can increase
the difficulty of Social rolls to convince someone of your
trustworthiness by as much as 3. Even the close members
of your coterie have reservations about you.
Outspoken Heretic (4 points): You hold a belief con-
sidered to be heretical by a major religious power, such as the
Catholic Church. Unlike others who practice their heresies in
secret, you are open about your beliefs. You must constantly
face false accusations, harassment from others who fancy
themselves true believers, and the denial of hospitality from
steadfastly faithful stranger, or those who fear the religious
authority. At the Storyteller’s discretion, this can impose a
difficulty increase of up to 3 to applicable Social rolls.
Nameless (5 points): You do not exist. Certainly, you
still walk the earth and your friends and kin can still see
and touch you, but all records of your existence have been
destroyed. Not even your vampiric progeny can lay claim to
your name. As far as anyone can prove, you never were. If you
take this Flaw, you may not take any Social Merits that grant
benefits based on reputation. At Storyteller’s discretion, you
may also be barred from taking Backgrounds that require a
social presence. Who or what have you made so angry that
they have erased your existence from the face of this earth?
Supernatural Merits
Darksight (2 point): Your character sees in the darkness
the way others see in light. Even in the complete absence of
light, she sees perfectly. She suffers no penalties for darkness.
Additionally, she catches glimpses of the otherworldly. She
sees ghosts as if they were material, but only while in the
dark. More than a candle’s light negates this ability.
Inoffensive to Animals (1 point): Not all of the curses
of unlife have fallen upon you. Your presence does not disturb
natural animals; instead, they treat you as they would any
ordinary mortal. This will not stop a mother bear from de-
fending her den, but will negate the inconvenience of having
to explain why the farmer’s dog is so afraid of you. Creatures
with a connection to the occult (such as crows, owls, or black
cats) may still react to your presence, but not in a bad way.
Lucky (1 to 5 points): Fortune smiles upon you. The
variable point costs reflect just how much you have been
blessed by luck. At 1 point, the trifles of everyday life
rarely seem to affect you. At 3 points, you are a gambling
den’s nightmare. At 5 points, you live a truly charmed life,
misfortune seemingly passing you by at every turn. For
each point invested in this Merit, you gain one reroll per
day. You may reroll any roll except a roll to resist falling
from your Road, but you must take the second result.
Clan Apostate (2 points): Having undergone the
Baali Rite of Apostasy, you now belong to a brood. Re-

place any one in-clan Discipline with Daimoinon but
also gain the Baali clan weakness in addition to your
default clan weakness. You still pass for a member of
your former clan with relative ease, and anyone you
Embrace will also belong to your original clan. You do
not lose levels in the Discipline you chose in exchange
for Daimoinon, but further levels in that Discipline are
purchased at out-of-clan cost.
Medium (2 points): Ghosts, spirits, and shades speak
to you. You may have had this talent in your mortal life,
or it may be a new ability granted by your Embrace. By
spending a moment in meditation, you may ask the spirits
who visit you for their aid. They are ready and willing to
help you in whatever way they can (most often by pro-
viding information), but they always ask a favor in return.
The severity of this favor should be in line with the task
given to the spirits.
Oracular Ability (3 points): Signs, omens, and
portents reveal themselves to you, attuned to the occult
as you are. You might be trained in a specific school of
divination, or the workings of fate may reveal themselves
to you unbidden. When an omen manifests itself, wheth-
er through applied practice or a casual encounter, you
immediately recognize it for what it is. The Storyteller
will give the vague impressions the sign leaves upon you,
which you may interpret on the fly as you wish. Studying
the omen further to gain more relevant information
requires time to think and a Perception or Intelligence
+ Enigmas roll.
Spirit Mentor (3 points): A ghost has chosen to guide
and protect you. This ghost could be the soul of a departed
loved one, a former teacher, or close friend or something
more sinister, such as a spirit you have bound through
dark rituals. The mentor offers you tutelage and support
in the same way a mortal or Cainite mentor might, though
perhaps less restricted by the conventions of society and
the inconveniences of (un)living flesh. Your spirit mentor
may also need to be called upon by a specific rite or an
incantation. With a suitable explanation and Storyteller
permission, this Merit may also be used to represent the
mentorship or another kind of supernatural creature.
Unbondable (3 points): The stilled blood within
you refuses to be compelled. You cannot be bound via
the Blood Oath. This does not render you immune to
any other source of mental influence, however. If your
character is of Clan Tremere, you may not take this Merit.
True Love (4 points): Transcendent love binds you
to another and vice versa. You have the kind of rela-
tionship found only in legends and bardsong. There is
nothing you would not do for each other. This depthless,
unconditional love grants you tremendous might, making
you able to overcome impossible obstacles. Once per
story, you may automatically succeed on any one roll,
no matter how many successes it would require, so long
as it is done on your beloved’s behalf. If your lover is a
Storyteller character, he or she may do the same as if
he or she possessed this Merit. If your lover is another
player character, he or she must also take this Merit.
True Love is not one-sided.
Nine Lives (6 points): By some wicked fortune, you
are extremely difficult to permanently kill. When a roll
would result in your death, immediately reroll it. If the roll
succeeds, you walk away from the lethal incident alive,
but down one life. You may reroll such near-fatal rolls up
to nine times. When your second chances are expended,
you will face Final Death like anyone else.
Supernatural Flaws
Cast No Reflection (1 point): Like a monster out
of a ghost story, your visage does not appear in a mirror,
standing water, a sword’s blade, or any other reflective
surface. Casual observers need only make a Perception
+ Alertness roll at default difficulty to notice this oddity,
which can lead to any number of interesting complications
when dealing with mortals.
Initiate of the Road (1 point): Your life on the road
to enlightenment has just begun. Though you fully grasp
the tenets and precepts of your chosen Road, you have not
yet put them to the test. This may be because you were
recently Embraced or because you previously abandoned a
former Road (in which case you may also consider taking
the Apostate Flaw on page 425). With this comes a +1
difficulty in resisting frenzy and Rötschreck, and you lack
an aura tied to your Road. However, you have an easier
time changing Roads, if you wish to do so.
Repulsed by Garlic (1 point): True to folktales, the
scent of garlic is a ward against you. You cannot abide by
the odor, requiring a Willpower test when it is present.
Failure results in you fleeing the scene, which can make
dinner parties quite awkward. The difficulty of this Will-
power roll may be increased, depending on the intensity
of the scent.
Touch of Frost (1 point): A nimbus of cold surrounds
you. At the slightest touch, plants wither and die. If you
stand near still water for too long, it begins to freeze. This
makes you very easy to find, increasing the difficulty of
rolls to stay hidden or concealed by one.
Cursed (1 to 5 points): Someone has placed a curse
upon you. Work with the Storyteller to determine the nature
of your curse, why you are cursed, and how it manifests. The
following examples demonstrate the scale of your misfortune:
1 point - if you betray the trust of another, they will always
find out; 2 points - words fail you when you try to urgently
describe something you’ve seen or heard; 3 points - in
your hands, tools warp and break; 4 points - everyone you
love will eventually mistrust and despise you; 5 points - all
your successes and grand schemes are doomed to fold and
crumble. Curses can be lifted by reconciling with whoever
(or whatever) levied the curse in the first place.
Demon-Hounded (1 to 5 points): A demon has
taken a shine to you. It comes at odd and inconvenient
hours and offers you bribes of wealth and power. Some
days, it asks for favors; on others, it offers them. What
black schemes does hell have in mind for you that one
of its servants would bother you so? What fell powers
have you toyed with that you should not? At 1 point,
the demon is little more than an imp, asking for minor
favors or stealing small objects. At 3 points, the demon is
your physical or magical equal, or is a smaller threat that
is willing to also drag your close friends into this affair.
At 5 points, the demon is significantly powerful, able to
threaten your coterie, or a lesser demon willing to torment
your friends, family, and acquaintances.
Unlucky (1 to 5 points): You are spectacularly unfor-
tunate. Disaster follows in your wake. You are magnetically
attracted to misfortune. At 1 point, it rains whenever you
forget your coat. At 3 points, it’s rare for you to recover
from any failure gracefully. At 5 points, nearly everything
you attempt ends catastrophically. A number of times per
day equal to the point you have in this Flaw, the Storyteller
may force you to reroll a successful roll and take the second
result. Lucky and Unlucky are not mutually exclusive, but
for simplicity’s sake, the same roll cannot be modified by
both at once. That is, if a Lucky reroll is used, the Storyteller
cannot force you to reroll the reroll.
Thirteenth Generation (2 points): By some strange
twist of the supernatural, you were Embraced by a member
of the Twelfth Generation. Your sire may not have even
expected this to come to pass, and it certainly worries
the powers-that-be, for you are something that should
surely not exist. The difficulty of any rolls to activate your
Disciplines is increased by one. At Storyteller discretion,
you may also face other increased difficulties when you
brush up against those who are frightened or suspicious
of what you are. Strongly consider taking the Cannot
Embrace or the Weak Blood Flaws as well.
Cannot Embrace (2 points): Through some curse,
weakness, or defect in your vampirism, you are unable to
create progeny. You may not be aware of this until it is too
late and a victim lays bleeding out in your arms.
Eerie Presence (2 points): A pervasive miasma of
unease surrounds you. You exude a sense of wrongness
that is palpable to mortals. This aura of fear increases the
difficulty of Social rolls involving interaction with mortals
by two, with the exception of Intimidation rolls.
Repulsive to Animals (2 points): When you are near,
natural animals startle and panic. Unlike the normal dis-
turbance caused by the presence of Cainites, animals near
you either bolt in terror or become aggressive and violent,
depending on their temperament. This makes riding a horse
(or any other riding beast) nearly impossible, as you are un-
able to calm any creature down with a normal Animal Ken
roll. You must use the abilities of the Animalism Discipline
or feed the animal some of your blood, which transforms it
into a ghoul.
Permanent Third Eye (2 or 4 points; Salubri and
Tremere only): While others descended from the blood
of Saulot are able to conceal their third eye, yours remains
permanently open on your forehead. For 2 points, it is
mechanically treated as any normal third eye, though
narratively may draw strange looks and unwanted atten-
tion. For 4 points, the eye is permanently open and may
only be closed for a scene on a successful Willpower roll.
Animate Shadow (3 points): Your shadow is not
merely an absence of light in the shape of your person;
it is a living, malicious entity with a will of its own. It
lashes out at friends and enemies alike, tearing at the
scenery and snarling at passers-by. In addition to being
a frightening problem, you lose two dice from all Social
rolls with Lasombra who know of your issue.
Cloaked in Shadow (3 points): Shadows cling to
you constantly. These are not the ordinary shadows cast
simply by existing; the darkness around you is thick and
heavy, making it impossible for you to pass as anything
other than something supernatural. In addition to this
complication, the difficulty for Social rolls with other
vampires (especially the Lasombra) increases by one.
Haunted (3 points): A vengeful ghost haunts you,
for any variety of reasons: perhaps you took the ghost’s
life, perhaps it is the shade of a departed enemy with
unfinished business, or perhaps it is a misfortune of your
Embrace. When it is able to strike out at you, it is your
physical and magical equal. However, most of the time it
chooses to make your life miserable by frightening your
friends, moving your furniture, and making loud noises
while you are trying to rest. How often your haunt makes
its displeasure known is up to the whims of the Storyteller.
The Storyteller may wish to forbid characters with the
Necromancy Discipline from taking this Flaw, as they have
an easy means of dealing with the drawbacks.
Can’t Cross Running Water (4 points): Some su-
pernatural prohibition encoded within you prevents you
from crossing any moving body of water more than two
feet deep. To do so, you must pass a Courage test (which
the Storyteller may increase the difficulty, if appropriate).
If you fail, you stand transfixed, unable to cross, while a
botch sends you into Rötschreck. Mustering the fortitude
to cross still pains you, and you take one health level of
unsoakable bashing damage. If you swim or wade into the
water, the damage is aggravated instead.
Grip of the Damned (4 points): When you drink
from a mortal, they do not slip quietly into submission,
instead retaining full, fearful consciousness. Many scream
and thrash, doing everything to stop you from feasting on
their blood. Mechanically, you must grapple with a target
when you wish to feed on him. Additionally, it may prove
difficult to conceal your actions from other mortals when
you are wrestling with a howling victim. At the Storytell-
er’s discretion, this may be taxing to particularly chaste
members of certain Roads.
Dark Fate (5 points): Your damnation extends far
beyond your unlife. Fate has prepared a great doom for
you, the likes of which will be whispered in tales long
after it has come to pass. Work with your Storyteller to
craft your doom (or let her unpleasantly surprise you, if
you prefer), bearing in mind that it should be legendarily
terrible. You cannot avoid your fate. The only way to be
rid of this Flaw is to let your doom come to pass.
Harbinger of the Abyss (5 points): You have become
the void: the endless black of night, an empty pool of
darkness. Where you pass, shadows leap to join you and
flames gutter and perish. When you are in the presence
of mundane fire, you must make a reflexive Obtenebra-
tion roll against the soak difficulty of any nearby flame.
A success extinguishes the fire instantly, casting the
area into darkness. This Flaw also includes the effects of
Touch of Frost (page 426) and Eerie Presence (page 427)
and is therefore mutually exclusive with them. However,
the clinging darkness around you provides one benefit
(besides being an unusual way to extinguish unwanted
fires): reduce the difficulty of all Intimidation rolls by
two, to a minimum of 4. You must have at least one dot
of Obtenebration to purchase this Flaw.
Light-Sensitive (5 points): While all Cainites fear
the daylight, you are especially vulnerable. Beneath the
hateful gaze of the sun, your unliving flesh chars and
crumbles at an alarming rate, and even the gentle light
of the moon causes you pain. You take double the normal
amount of damage when exposed to sunlight and lethal
damage from moonlight. Characters who are Followers of
Set and Lasombra may take this Flaw to further intensify
their clan’s particular weakness to sunlight, doubling the
augmented damage instead.
Weak Blood (5 points): Something has diminished
your supernatural vigor and lessened your abilities as a
vampire. Where others effortlessly command the gifts of
Lilith, you struggle. No Discipline you have knowledge
of may be higher than 4. It costs you twice the normal
amount of blood points to control any vampiric abilities.
You must feed a person six drinks of your feeble blood
before they can become your thrall, and you do not possess
the potency to create a ghoul or sire a childe. This effect
also covers the drawbacks of the Cannot Embrace Flaw
(page 427), therefore the two are mutually exclusive.
Weak Aura (2 point Merit or Flaw): The aura of
your Road clings weakly to you, manifesting only when
you perform acts of faith or when your fervor is at its most
intense. This is a Merit if your Road rating is 4 or less,
and a Flaw if it’s 5 or more. Follow the chart below for
the mechanical effects on the application of your aura.
Road RatingAura Modifier
10-9 +1 difficulty
8-3 no modifier
2-1 -1 difficulty
Potent Aura (3 point Merit of Flaw): Your aura
is mighty, giving people a powerful impression of you.
Your presence ripples through a room, giving you away
instantly. This is a mixed blessing, as you must grow into
your burgeoning power, finding it difficult to control at
first. This is a Merit if your Road is 5+ and Flaw if it’s 4
or less. Follow the chart below for the mechanical effects
on the application of your aura.

Aura Modifier
10 -3 difficulty
9-8 -2 difficulty
7-6 -1 difficulty
5 no modifier
4-3 +1 difficulty
2 +2 difficulty
1 +3 difficulty
